Board game Splendor in C++. Implemented a 2-player variant. Final Project for cs11

In Splendor, you are a savvy, Renaissance merchant. To maintain your social status, you will use all your
resources to purchase mines, transportation methods, and vendors that together will let you turn raw gems
into gorgeous jewels. Your goal is to finish the game with more “prestige points” than your opponent, proving
that you are the greatest merchant in the land! You and your opponent will take turns until one of you
reaches 15 prestige points, which signals the end of the game (if the first player hits 15 points, the second
player gets one more turn). When all final turns are completed, whoever has the most points wins.

There are three components in this game: gems, cards, and nobles.
Gems are your currency; they are used to purchase cards. There are 6 different types of gems, each of a
2 different color. There are 4 gems of each normal color (white, red, pink, blue, and green), and 5 of the gold
“wildcard” gems.
Cards represent the mines, transportation methods, and vendors that your business relies upon. You will
purchase cards over the course of the game to both obtain more prestige points and earn discounts that
make future purchases cheaper. Each category of card has its own deck (3 decks in total): there are 40 mine
cards, 30 transportation cards, and 20 vendor cards. Every card has three pieces of information:
1. A prestige point value. This is how many prestige points you gain if you buy the card.
2. A cost. This specifies how many gems (and of which colors) are required to purchase the card.
3. A discount (specified as a gem color). If you buy this card, you get a discount on future card purchases.

Splendor is played with two players alternating turns, starting with Player 1. On their turn, a player must
perform exactly one of the following 4 actions:
1. Take 3 gem tokens, each of a different color, from the board and into your private collection.
3
Gold gems cannot be taken.
2. Take 2 gem tokens of the same color from the board and into your private collection. Gold gems
cannot be taken. You may only perform this action if all 4 gems of the desired color are on the board.
For example, if there are 3 red gems left on the board, you cannot take 2 red gems as your action.
3. “Reserve” 1 visible card on the board and take 1 gold gem from the board (this is the only way
you can get gold gems during the game). The reserved card is put in your “hand” (which may hold up
to 3 reserved cards) and cannot be discarded; the only way to remove it from your hand is to purchase
it on a later turn (described below). If there is no more gold on the board, you can still reserve a card
(if you have space in your hand); you simply don’t receive any gold.
4. “Purchase” 1 visible card, either from the board or from your hand of reserved cards. To purchase
a card, you must spend the gems matching the card’s cost; the spent gems are returned to the board
from your private collection. A gold gem can replace a gem of any color, e.g., if a card costs 4 red
gems but you only have 3 red gems and 1 gold gem, the gold gem can act as the 4th red gem so you
can purchase the card. Purchasing a card grants you a discount (described below) and the number of
prestige points indicated on the card.
A player cannot have more than 10 gems in their private collection at the end of a turn. If they do, they
must return gems to the board until they only have 10.
Each card you buy during the game grants you a discount of a given gem color (indicated on the card).
This discount applies to future purchases: each discount is equal to a gem of that color. For example, if a
player has 2 blue discounts and wants to purchase a card that costs 2 blue gems and 1 green gem, they only
have to spend 1 green gem to get the card. Due to this rule, it’s possible to eventually own enough cards
such that you could purchase a card for free (the costs being covered by your purchased cards’ discounts).

 When a player gains at least 15 prestige points, the game ending is triggered. If Player 1 is the first to
15 prestige points, then Player 2 gets one more turn before the game is over. If Player 2 is the first to 15
prestige points, the game is simply over. The player with the most prestige points is the victor! In case of a
tie, the player who has purchased the fewest cards is the winner.

 Game Buttons:
q - Quit the game.
• p3 - Take 3 gems from the table, each of a different color. You specify the colors after the command,
e.g., p3 red white blue would put a red, white, and blue gem into your private collection.
• p2 - Take 2 gems of the same color (only possible if there are 4 gems of that color on the table). You
specify the color after the command, e.g., p2 red would put 2 red gems into your private collection.
• r - Reserve a visible card from the table. You specify the row by the first letter of its name (i.e.,
m - Mines, t - Transport, v - Vendors) and then the index of the card in that row (using 1-indexing),
e.g., r m 4 would reserve the 4th card from the mine row. A gold gem is automatically put in your
private collection if any gold gems are left on the board.
• b - Purchase a visible card from the table. You use the same specification as above, e.g., b t 2. The
gems necessary to purchase the card (including gold “wildcard” gems) are automatically spent, and
any applicable discounts are applied automatically.
• br - Purchase a reserved card. You specify the index of the card in your hand (using 1-indexing),
e.g., br 2 would purchase the second reserved card in your hand. Gems are automatically spent and
discounts are automatically applied as done in the previous command.
